Azure App Configuration configuration store docs (#2687)
dapr/docs: daprdocs/content/en/reference/components-reference/supported-configuration-stores/azure-appconfig-configuration-store.md

---
type: docs
title: "Azure App Configuration"
linkTitle: "Azure App Configuration"
description: Detailed information on the Azure App Configuration configuration store component
aliases:
  - "/operations/components/setup-configuration-store/supported-configuration-stores/setup-azure-appconfig/"
---

## Component format

> To setup Azure App Configuration configuration store create a component of type `configuration.azure.appconfig`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To set up an Azure App Configuration configuration store, create a component of type `configuration.azure.appconfig`.
```

{{% /alert %}}

## Spec metadata fields

| Field             | Required | Details | Example |
|-------------------|:--------:|---------|---------|
| host              | N        | Endpoint for the Azure App Configuration instance. No Default  | `https://dapr.azconfig.io`
| connectionString  | N        | Connection String the Azure App Configuration instance. No Default. Can be `secretKeyRef` to use a secret reference  | `Endpoint=https://foo.azconfig.io;Id=osOX-l9-s0:sig;Secret=00000000000000000000000000000000000000000000`
| maxRetries        | N         | Maximum number of retries before giving up. Defaults to `3` | `5`, `10`
| retryDelay        | N         | RetryDelay specifies the initial amount of delay to use before retrying an operation. The delay increases exponentially with each retry up to the maximum specified by MaxRetryDelay. Defaults to `4` seconds; `"-1"` disables delay between retries. | `4000000000`
| maxRetryDelay     | N         | MaxRetryDelay specifies the maximum delay allowed before retrying an operation. Typically the value is greater than or equal to the value specified in RetryDelay. Defaults to `120` seconds; `"-1"` disables the limit | `120000000000`

> **Note**: either `host` or `connectionString` must be specified.

Reviewer: If they **must** be specified, should we put "Y" in their required columns?

Author: It's one or the other. I think that adding "Y" to both fields can be misleading.

## Authenticating with Connection String 

> To access an App Configuration instance, you can use its connection string, which is available in the Azure portal. Because connection strings contain credential information, it is recommended treat them as secrets and use a secret store as described [here]({{< ref component-secrets.md >}})

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Access an App Configuration instance using its connection string, which is available in the Azure portal. Since connection strings contain credential information, you should treat them as secrets and [use a secret store]({{< ref component-secrets.md >}}).
```

## Authenticating with Azure AD

> The Azure App Configuration configuration store component also supports authentication with Azure AD. Before you enable this component, make sure you've read the [Authenticating to Azure]({{< ref authenticating-azure.md >}}) document and created an Azure AD application (also called Service Principal). Alternatively, make sure you have created a managed identity for your application platform.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Azure App Configuration configuration store component also supports authentication with Azure AD. Before you enable this component:

- Read the [Authenticating to Azure]({{< ref authenticating-azure.md >}}) document.
- Create an Azure AD application (also called Service Principal). 
- Alternatively, create a managed identity for your application platform.
```

> ## Setup Azure App Configuration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Set up Azure App Configuration
```

> **Note**: An Azure Subscription is requiered.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You need an Azure subscription to set up Azure App Configuration.
```

1. [Start the Azure App Configuration creation flow](https://ms.portal.azure.com/#create/Microsoft.Azconfig). Log in if necessary.

> 2. Click "Create" to kickoff deployment of your Azure App Configuration instance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Click **Create** to kickoff deployment of your Azure App Configuration instance.
```

Changing the numbered list to all "1" will automatically order the list correctly for you.

> 4. Once your instance is created, you'll need to grab the Host (Endpoint) or your Connection string:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Once your instance is created, grab the **Host (Endpoint)** or your **Connection string**:
```

>    - For the Host: navigate to the resource's "Overview" and copy "Endpoint".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - For the Host: navigate to the resource's **Overview** and copy **Endpoint**.
```

>    - For your connection string: navigate to "Settings" > "Access Keys" to copy and save your Connection string.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - For your connection string: navigate to **Settings** > **Access Keys** and copy your Connection string.
```

> 5. Add your host or your connection string to a `azappconfig.yaml` file that Dapr can apply. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Add your host or your connection string to an `azappconfig.yaml` file that Dapr can apply. 
```

     
   Set the `host` key to `[Endpoint]` or the `connectionString` key to the values you saved earlier. 
   

>    **Note:** In a production-grade application, follow [secret management]({{< ref component-secrets.md >}}) instructions to securely manage your secrets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{% alert title="Note" color="primary" %}}
In a production-grade application, follow [the secret management]({{< ref component-secrets.md >}}) instructions to securely manage your secrets.
{{% /alert %}}

```

```yaml
apiVersion: dapr.io/v1alpha1
kind: Component
metadata:
  name: <NAME>
spec:
  type: configuration.azure.appconfig
  version: v1
  metadata:
  - name: host
    value: <HOST>
  - name: connectionString
    value: <CONNECTIONSTRING>
  - name: maxRetries
    value: # Optional
  - name: retryDelay
    value: # Optional
  - name: maxRetryDelay
    value: # Optional
  - name: azureEnvironment # Optional, defaults to AZUREPUBLICCLOUD
    value: "AZUREPUBLICCLOUD"
  # See authentication section below for all options
  - name: azureTenantId # Optional
    value: "[your_service_principal_tenant_id]"
  - name: azureClientId # Optional
    value: "[your_service_principal_app_id]"
  - name: azureCertificateFile # Optional
    value : "[pfx_certificate_file_fully_qualified_local_path]"

```

{{% alert title="Warning" color="warning" %}}
The above example uses secrets as plain strings. It is recommended to use a secret store for the secrets as described [here]({{< ref component-secrets.md >}}).
{{% /alert %}}

## Spec metadata fields

| Field             | Required | Details | Example |
|-------------------|:--------:|---------|---------|

> | host              | N        | Endpoint for the Azure App Configuration instance. No Default  | `https://dapr.azconfig.io`

Reviewer 2: @cmendible Quick question, mention that host will be used with the Azure AD based auth? 
And also make it clear that Azure AD needs host for sure. 
See https://docs.dapr.io/reference/components-reference/supported-pubsub/setup-azure-eventhubs/ for more details on the either/or required fields. 
In comments in the component format add in details regarding the when host is used with which Auth and when connection string is used.

---
type: docs
title: "Azure App Configuration"
linkTitle: "Azure App Configuration"
description: Detailed information on the Azure App Configuration configuration store component
aliases:
  - "/operations/components/setup-configuration-store/supported-configuration-stores/setup-azure-appconfig/"
---

## Component format

To set up an Azure App Configuration configuration store, create a component of type `configuration.azure.appconfig`.

```yaml
apiVersion: dapr.io/v1alpha1
kind: Component
metadata:
  name: <NAME>
spec:
  type: configuration.azure.appconfig
  version: v1
  metadata:

>   - name: host # host should be used when 

Reviewer 2: based on the code this should be `appConfigHost`

Author: good catch!

  # Azure Authentication mechanism is used.
    value: <HOST>

>   - name: connectionString # connectionString should not be used when 

Reviewer 2: based on the code this should be `appConfigConnectionString`
